List are pretty useful, but unless you can get at the things in them they aren't all that good. You can already go through the elements of fa list in order, but what if you want to say, the fifth element? You need to know how to access the elements of a list.

  animals = ['bear', 'tiger', 'penguin', 'zebra'];
  bear = animals[0];

You take a list of animals, and then you get the first (1st) one using 0?! How does that work? Because of the way math works, Python starts its list at 0 rather than 1. It seems weird, but there are many advantages to this, even though it is mostly arbitrary.

The best way to explain why is by showing you the difference between how you use numbers and how programmers use numbers.

Imagine you are watching the four animals in our list ( ['bear', 'tiger', 'penguin', 'zebra'] ) run in a race. They cross the finish line in the order we have them in this list. The race was really exciting because the animals didn't eat each other and somehow managed to run a race. You friend shows up late and wants to know who won. Does your friend say, "Hey, who came it zeroth?" No, he says, "Hey, who came in first?"

This because the order of the animals is important. You can't have the second animal without the first (1st) animal, and you can't have the third without the second. It's also impossible to have a "zeroth" animal since zero means nothing. How can you have a nothing win a race? It just doesn't make sense. We call these kinds of numbers "ordinal" numbers because they indicate an ordering of things.

Programmers, however, can't think this way because they can pick any element out of a list at any point. To programmers, the list of animals is more like a deck of cards. If they want the tiger, they grab it. If they want the zebra, they can take it too. This need to pull elements out of list at random meant that they need a way to indicate elements consistently by an address, or an "index," and the best way to do that is to start the indices at 0. Trust me on this: the math is way easier for these kinds of access. This kind of number is a "cardinal" number and means you can pick at random, so there needs to be a 0 element.

How this help you work with this list? Simple, every time you say to yourself, "I want the third animal," you translate this "ordinal" number to a "cardinal" number by subtracting 1. The "third" animal is at index 2 and is the penguin. You have to do this because you have spend your whole live using ordinal numbers, and now you have to think in cardinal. Just subtract 1 and you will be good.

Remember: ordinal == ordered, 1st; cardinal == cards at random, 0.  
